We know what the future holds.
Bible prophecy clearly indicates
that we are living in “the last days.”
We understand what events
will lead to Armageddon
and the arrival of God’s new world.
However, we do not know the exact events
that we’ll experience personally.
For example, you might wonder:
‘Will I experience a natural disaster?
‘And if so, what kind of disaster?
‘How will persecution affect me?
‘Will I end up in prison?
As I get older, who will care for me?’
Have you ever asked yourself
similar questions?
Has this uncertainty
made you anxious or fearful?
Such feelings can make it hard
to think clearly.
But these feelings can go away
when we realize that we are well-prepared.
For example,
do you remember the feature drama
from the 2023 convention,
“Commit Your Way to Jehovah”?
It illustrated how following
the organization’s direction
saved lives during times of political unrest.
But is there anything else we can do
to be fully equipped for tomorrow?
Absolutely.
In fact,
we are preparing ourselves every day.
Let’s review what we’re already doing
and why we really have no reason
to be fearful or anxious.
The apostle Peter wrote his letters
during times of trials and instability.
The brothers and sisters of the first century
knew they were living in the last days
of the Jewish system of things.
Based on Jesus’ warning,
they expected personal challenges.
However, they did not know
exactly when and how
these events would affect them.
It was impossible for them
to plan for every possibility.
And Peter, who was getting older,
may have wondered
how he and other elderly ones
would be cared for later in life.
He may have perceived
that aging and declining health
could create uncertainty and fear in some.
Doesn’t that sound a lot like the situation
we’re in today?
What did the apostle Peter
recommend in view of future uncertainties?
At 1 Peter 1:13, he said:
“So brace up your minds for activity;
“keep your senses completely;
“set your hope on the undeserved kindness
that will be brought to you
at the revelation of Jesus Christ.”
So did Peter tell the brothers and sisters
to stockpile money or supplies?
No!
He encouraged them to strengthen
their faith and trust in Jehovah.
There are no uncertainties for Jehovah.
He had promised to protect the Christians
in the first century,
and he would provide salvation.
In verse 13,
what are the three things Peter
encouraged Christians to do?
(1) “Brace up your minds for activity,”
(2) “keep your senses completely,”
and (3) “set your hope
on the undeserved kindness.”
Let’s look at each point and see
what helps us to be
fully equipped for tomorrow.
First, Peter tells us
to ‘brace up our minds for activity.’
“Brace up” means to be ready for activity.
What kind of activity?
Among other forms of activity,
notice what Peter wrote
a little later in his letter
at 1 Peter 2:9:
“‘You should declare abroad
the excellencies’ of the One
who called you out of darkness
into his wonderful light.”
In the first century,
Christians were active in telling others
the good news about Jesus Christ.
We do the same today.
We’re active in the ministry,
sharing the good news
that Jesus is King in heaven,
and we speak about the hope for all.
Now, how does sharing
in this activity prepare us
for the uncertainties of tomorrow?
Talking to others
about our hope for the future
strengthens our own conviction and faith.
This ministry keeps us focused,
and we see the positive changes
in those we teach.
Sharing in this activity
deepens our gratitude
for being part of Jehovah’s family.
Has this gratitude motivated you
to be active in the ministry?
Maybe your circumstances
even allow you to share in full-time service.
By being active,
you show Jehovah that his Kingdom
is the most important thing in your life.
And Jehovah promises
to care for those who put his Kingdom first.
You are in his protective hands;
there is no need to be anxious or fearful.
Therefore, being active in the ministry
is the first step toward
being prepared for tomorrow.
Next, the apostle Peter tells us
to ‘keep our senses completely.’
This means being balanced in our thinking.
Thus, we are able
to evaluate matters properly,
come to the right conclusions,
and make good decisions.
Isn’t this what we want?
How can we make good decisions,
especially when we face
unexpected events in our life?
Developing Christian qualities
helps us keep our senses.
For instance,
Peter mentions one important quality
at 2 Peter 2:9:
“So, then, Jehovah knows how to rescue people
of godly devotion out of trial.”
So, what quality can help us to keep
our senses completely
and make good decisions?
It’s godly devotion.
This means being loyal to Jehovah
and doing what he asks.
Is this not what we promised to do
when we dedicated our lives to him
and got baptized?
Yes, and since then,
we’ve made many decisions
to follow his directions,
which often come through his organization.
Some changes were easy;
others were hard,
especially when we did not fully understand
the direction or agree with it.
Can you think of a time when you made
a difficult change for Jehovah?
Did you later see how
following his direction led to good results?
Your love for Jehovah and your deep devotion
to him helped you to make wise decisions.
What’s the point?
Doing what Jehovah asks us today
not only brings good results now
but also prepares us for tomorrow.
It ensures that when
we’re faced with a critical situation,
we will naturally follow
Jehovah’s directions.
Isn’t this the best way
to prepare for the future?
For example,
you may remember Sister Margaret Wyrick,
who had to flee from wildfires.
She learned from Jehovah’s organization
how important it is to obey
those directing traffic.
Although she wanted to drive a different way,
she followed directions and was safe.
Her godly devotion was evident.
It’s what prepared her for the future
and ultimately saved her life.
So Peter said we must ‘keep our senses.’
How?
By cultivating qualities like godly devotion.
This allows us to make good decisions
and experience Jehovah’s care.
What was the third point
that Peter mentioned at 1 Peter 1:13?
He tells us to ‘set our hope
on the undeserved kindness.’
What was Peter trying to say?
How can these two elements,
hope and undeserved kindness,
help us to prepare for tomorrow?
First, we are reminded
of the stabilizing effect
that hope can have on us.
Hope is compared to an anchor
that keeps a ship secure during a storm.
When we become anxious about what
we might have to endure tomorrow
(persecution, disaster, or health issues),
don’t we feel like we’re in a storm?
Without hope,
we might easily lose our balance.
Peter encourages us here
to see beyond the uncertainties
and focus on what is certain,
solid, and secure.
Our hope, our view of future blessings,
stabilizes us.
Did you notice that Peter
made a connection between
hope and undeserved kindness?
The hope that we have is a gift from Jehovah,
and Jesus’ resurrection
is the basis for our hope.
The more we reflect on this,
the stronger our gratitude and hope become.
This grateful attitude
influences our daily life.
How so?
For example, notice the mindset
Peter mentioned at 1 Peter 2:11:
“Beloved, I urge you as foreigners
and temporary residents
“to keep abstaining from fleshly desires,
which wage war against you.”
Our daily choices show that we do not belong
to this world or seek its protection.
We are residents of God’s Kingdom.
Peter reminds us to be different.
For instance,
we are different because of our view
of material things.
Materialism, a fleshly desire,
has affected people around us,
and many would sacrifice everything
for material things.
For example,
many people are overly concerned
about their financial future.
While it’s the course of wisdom
to do some planning,
excessive worry
about material needs later in life
may cause some
to put undue pressure on children
and other family members
to pursue a secular career.
This is common in some cultures,
and it can affect us if we’re not careful.
We might feel pressured to imitate others.
And this could even affect
our friendship with Jehovah
or what others in our family can do for him.
In the following interview,
notice how parents living in such a culture
chose to prepare for the future.
Hong Kong is an international city,
and it is known
for having high property prices.
I was a teacher,
and as a teacher,
I advised my students to study hard
and choose majors that could help them
find a job with a higher income
and a stable future.
Before I learned the truth,
I also hoped that our children
could have a better future
by getting a good job when they grew up.
That way,
they could also support us financially.
Being Christian parents in the truth,
we didn’t want them
to neglect their studies in school
but we also wanted them to know
about the Bible.
Therefore, we started studying the Bible
with them and took them to meetings
and helped them to preach to others.
Since they were young,
I emphasized the blessings from God
and that we should always give thanks to him.
So when one of my sons told me,
“Dad, I want to pioneer,” I was thrilled,
and I said, “You should do it!”
But when I heard that he wanted to pioneer
and work part-time,
I worried about how
that would affect our income.
However, we never had a problem.
I really saw how Jehovah blessed us.
The amount of money that we earned
was more than enough, and I felt cared for
and provided for by Jehovah.
When my eldest son told me
that he wanted to stop his current studies
and start learning a construction trade,
I was disappointed.
I thought that even students
who didn’t do well
could do that job and that that type of work
would be physically harder for him.
But he explained to us
that being a construction worker
would be useful now
and forever in the new world.
I eventually respected his decision.
We taught our children to put Jehovah first,
but when it came
to putting it into practice,
I needed to respect
the decision made by my son.
In order to make it possible
for our whole family to pioneer,
we needed to simplify our lives.
During family worship,
we discussed ways to reduce expenses
so that everyone in the family
was on the same page.
I noticed that we did not lack anything
and that the whole family
could all share the burden of our expenses.
Our children are now all grown up,
and they willingly serve Jehovah.
I am so grateful to Jehovah
because they have come
to love him with their whole heart.
We are all so happy!
I am thankful to Jehovah every time
I see the smiling faces of my family.
I have clearly felt
that Jehovah
always takes care of his servants.
Like it says at Matthew 6:33,
if we ‘keep seeking first God’s Kingdom
and his righteousness,’
Jehovah will take care of us.
And if our prayers
are according to God’s will
and we try our best,
he will undoubtedly bless our efforts.
Therefore, I have strong faith
and hope for our future ahead.
Being different can be challenging,
but wasn’t it encouraging
to see how this couple
resisted cultural expectations and pressure?
Instead, they agreed
with their children’s desire
to pursue goals in Jehovah’s service,
and they supported them.
Strengthening our friendship with Jehovah
is the best preparation for tomorrow.
And whether Jehovah ultimately uses children
to care for their parents
or provides help in another way,
Jehovah will stick to his promise
to care for us.
To be fully equipped for tomorrow,
we set our hope with gratitude on our God
—the God we trust.
In this discussion,
did you find that you are already
doing these things?
Likely so.
Therefore,
we do not have any reason
to be overly anxious or fearful
about future trials or other uncertainties.
We face the future with confidence
because we are fully equipped for tomorrow.